Array-chunk.md has been added and is up for review (#2945)
Codecademy/docs: content/php/concepts/arrays/terms/array-chunk/array-chunk.md

---
Title: 'array_chunk()'

> Desciprtion: 'Splits an array into chunks'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Splits an array into a number of specified chunks.'
```

Reviewer: the spacing within the metadata section looks incorrect. Please look at one of the templates or an existing doc for reference

Subjects:
    - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
    - 'Arrays'
    - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
    - 'learn-php'
    - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`array_chunk()`** method splits an array into chunks and returns a multidimensional array, each array containing `length` elements.

## Syntax

```pseudo

> array_chunk(array $array, int $length, bool $preserve_keys = false)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
array_chunk($array, $length, $preserve_keys)
```

```

> The `array_chunk()` function has two required parameter and one optional parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `array_chunk()` function has two required parameters and one optional parameter.
```

- `$array`: Specifies the input `array`.

> - `$length`: Specifies that amount of elements in a chunk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `$length`: An integer that specifies that amount of elements in a chunk.
```

> - `$preserve_keys`: When set to **true** keys will be preserved. The default is **false** which will reindex each chunk.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `$preserve_keys`: When set to `true` keys will be preserved. The default is `false` which will reindex each chunk.
```

> The `array_chunk()` function returns a multidimensional array, with each dimension containing **length** elements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `array_chunk()` function returns a multidimensional array, with each dimension containing `$length` elements.
```

## Example

> The following example uses the `array_chunk()` function to split an array of students into chunks of 5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example uses the `array_chunk()` function to split an array of students into chunks of 5. Additionally, the `$preserve_keys` parameter is set as `true`, which maintains the existing indexes.
```

```php
<?php
$students = [
"Alice", "Bob", "Charlie", "David", "Emma", "Frank",
"Grace", "Henry", "Isabella", "Jack", "Kate", "Liam",
"Mia", "Noah", "Olivia", "Peter", "Quinn", "Ruby",
"Sophia"
];

$chunkedArray = array_chunk($students, 5, true);

print_r($chunkedArray)
```

The example will result in the following output:

```shell
Array
(
    [0] => Array
        (
            [0] => Alice
            [1] => Bob
            [2] => Charlie
            [3] => David
            [4] => Emma
        )

    [1] => Array
        (
            [5] => Frank
            [6] => Grace
            [7] => Henry
            [8] => Isabella
            [9] => Jack
        )

    [2] => Array
        (
            [10] => Kate
            [11] => Liam
            [12] => Mia
            [13] => Noah
            [14] => Olivia
        )

    [3] => Array
        (
            [15] => Peter
            [16] => Quinn
            [17] => Ruby
            [18] => Sophia
        )

)
```

> > **Note:** The last chunk may contain less than `$length` elements. Due to `$preserve_keys` being set to `true` the indexes in the chunks do not reindex.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The last chunk may contain less than `$length` elements.
```

> > **Note:** The last chunk may contain less than **length** elements. Due to $preserve_keys being set to **true** the indexes in the chunks do not reindex.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The last chunk may contain less than `$length` elements. Due to `$preserve_keys` being set to `true` the indexes in the chunks do not reindex.
```

## Codebyte Example

This example is runnable and uses the `array_chunk()` function:

> > **Note:** The example uses a `foreach` loop to cycle through the elements with each chunk. `implode()` is used to join the names of students in each chunk to create a readable format for output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The example uses a `foreach` loop to cycle through the elements with each chunk, and `implode()` is used to join the names of students in each chunk to create a readable format.
```

> > **Note:** The example used a `foreach` loop to cycle through the elements with each chunk. `implode()` is used to join the names of students in each chunk to create a readable format for output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The example uses a `foreach` loop to cycle through the elements with each chunk. `implode()` is used to join the names of students in each chunk to create a readable format for output.
```
